# Nov-05, 2022 (Week 5)

# Primary Goal
- Understand Git and GitHub.
- Doing some basic commands.

## Git
- This tool helps us in Version Control.
- Version Control means that we can create new versions of our software without any additional overhead.
- Any software is not bug free. Overtime, they will be fixed, that means, over time, the software needs to be updated and therefore, we need to keep a track of all the versions of that software.
- To run this, we need Git bash for Windows / For Mac and Linux, it's already available.
- In order for git to work, we need to initialize this. We do that by running the command `git init`.
- Once a git repository, the branch name will be shown next to the path.
- Example: `aayus@ROG MINGW64 ~/knowledgehut/project_1 (master)`
- Another way with which we can check if it is a git repository is by checking the directories. A git repository will have a .git folder inside it.
- Anything inside that repository can be tracked. Even if that thing is inside a child directory. However, if it is outside of that directory, then it is outside of the reach of git and cannot be tracked.
- In order to remove the git tracking from a project, we need to remove the `.git` directory. `.git` is a hidden directory which contains all the (tracked) files and configurations of git. We rarely touch this.
- To remove, we go into the repository folder and run the command `rm -Rf .git/`
- `.git` will only be present on the repository's root directory. Not the children.
- The root directory is the one where we run the `git init` command. Git will track the children directories. Not only 1 level down, but more than that (There is no hard limit on the number of children it can track).

Ref - https://www.atlassian.com/git/glossary


### git status
- This command gives you a brief status about the repository.
- We can run this command anywhere inside our git repository.
- This contains information about the commit history (last 3 commits).
- Contains the list of files that have changed since the last commit was made.
- The file paths are relative. If we run git status inside a directory. Then the file paths will have `../` in the start.
- If the file has been added and it is ready for commit, then it will be shown inside the Ready to be Committed list. (Usually green color).
- If the file is a change from previous commit, then it is shown in a separate list of modified files. The untracked file list is the one for files which git is not tracking (That means, these files are newly created files).

### git add
- This is used to add files in order to prepare them for the commit.
- This is like a staging area.
- Like precommit sort of a thing.
- We add files one by one using the add command.
- Example: `git add file1.txt`
- However, if we want to add all the files. We can run `git add .`. Dot here will signify the current directory. So, all the files and folders inside the current directory will be added. If we do `git add .` in the root directory of the repository, then it will add everything that is changed to the stage.
- However, `git add .` is not recommeded because with this, someone might accideantally commit a file which is not expected to be committed.

### git commit
- This command is used to create a milestone / checkpoint.
- Each commit needs to have a message with it. It's a string, Ideally, it should not exceeed the length of 50 characters.
- This message is a brief description of what has been changed since the last commit.
- Every commit will have a unique id. (Technically a hash).
- This is not a random string (This is generated by hashing algoriithms of cryptoraphy).
- This is an alphanumeric string. This will be unique per commit.

### git log
- This allows us to check the history of the repository.
- This shows the list of all the commits of that particular repository.

**Note: When you do your very first commit, git will ask you for your name and email. The commands used for that are `git config --global user.name "Your Name"` and for email, we use `git config --global user.email "abcd@gmail.com"`. This would happen for the first time only and since we are using the `--global` flag, this will be saved for all future repositories, if we don't use the global flag, then for each repository we will have to define our name and email seprately.**

### git diff
- This is a tool used to check the difference of a file.
- The difference between the commit version (the content of the file which was there during the last commit) and the current version (the contents of the file now).
- Git tracks on a per line basis, so even if we add a space in a line. Git will treat is as if the line was removed and a new line was added.
- We can see the removals in read color and the additions in green color.
- Since colors are not always available, the removal lines also have a - (minus symbol) at their start and the addition lines have a + (pkus symbol) at their start.
- Once we are satisfied with the difference, we can proceed on adding that file and preparing it for that commit.
- Since the diff tool compares with the last commit, this is not going to work for new (untracked) files. Beause this is the first time git is seeing this file. It does not know what to to compare the file with. In that case, it will not give ny result. To check, we can just open the file in our code editor.


### Branches
- Branches are like a copy of your code.
- At any given time, pnly 1 branch can be active.
- By default, the active branch is master/main.
- We can have as many branches as we want.
- In order to switch between branches, we need to checkout.
- `git checkout <branch_name>`
- If we want to create a new branch, we run `git checkout -b <branch_name> <source>`.
- Example: `git checkout -b back 404de364ac52bb6f5bb556a3cebf5ca46963e587`. Here, we created a new branch called as back based on the commit id, `404de364ac52bb6f5bb556a3cebf5ca46963e587`. This is a way to go back in time to explore the repository at thar particular commit. This will only show the committed files and not the modified/untracked files.
- The usage is that for 1 fix, we typically do 1 branch. We can have as many branches as we want. Once done, we can remove the branch.
- In order to check for branches of a repository, we can run the command `git branch -a`. This shows all the branches of a particular repository. The currentl (active) branch will be shown in green color and with a star symbol next to it.


## Github
- This is a service as compared to Git, which is a tool.
- Git is used to implement Verson control on your project whereas GitHub is just used to host it online.
- This is like Google Drive / Dropbox, but for repositories.
- After registering, we can create a new repository and the URL we can shar with other developers.
- Example: https://github.com/aayusharyan/my-first-repo

### Remote
- This is the server which can have to code.
- Local is my machine, remote is Github.
- We call this remote because this is not the local machine, it is a remote machine.
- We nedd to configure the remote URLs, first we check, `git remote -v`. Here, the -v flag is to view.
- We add the remote. In order to add a remote, we run the command `git remote add <remote_name> <remote_url>`. Commonly, the remote name is used as `origin` but we can give any name that we want.

### Pushing
- Sending the code/changes from local machine to the remote machine.
- We push the changes. Once the on Github, other developers/engineers will pull these changes.
- By changes, I mean commits.
- `git push <remote_name> <branch_name>`.

**Note: git does not track empty directories, in order for git to track a directory, it needs to have some content inside it.

- After any change, these are the three steps you need to do in order to push your code on GitHub.
  - `git add <filename>`
  - `git commit -m "<Commit Message>"`
  - `git push <Remote name>`
- Once pushed, other team members will run `git pull <Remote Name>` in order to get the latest changes.

### Pull Request
- This is when the code is requested to be pulled from one branch/remote to another branch/remote.
- This needs to be explicitly approved (merged).
- We can compare and greate PR between any branches or even between forks.

### Git clone
- This is used to create a copy of the files from the remote repository.
- This is used to create on local from remote.
- We only need to do this once.
- Example: `git clone <remote url>`
- After a repo is cloned, we just need to pull for changes.
- `git pull <remote name> <branch name>`

### Github UI
- This allows us to navigate and edit the whole code.

### Forks
- This is like a copy of the Github repoisoty on your own github.
- Typically, a repository resides under `username/repo_name`. But creating a fork, it can be `myusername/repo_name`. So, that would mean the repository is not under my account.
- This is not the main code, but a copy of that code under my account.
- This is now my remote URL. From local if I push anything, that goes to my fork instead of the main codebase.
- From local, I can change things according to my task. And then run git add, commit and push commands.
- These commands will push the changed code to my forked repository. From there, I will create a pull request.
- Then the manager will review and if approved and merged, then my code will reach and get merged with the company's main code.

*Pulls and Pull Requests are two separate things.*

*Good VSCode Extension for Git tracking - https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eamodio.gitlens.*


# For Week 6
a. README.md
b. .gitignore
c. How Code Reviews are Done, General Practices, etc.
d. Source and Version Control using Git (Module)
e. Working with GitHub (Module)

# For HTML Part (Week 6)
Introduction to HTML5
b. Using live server in VS Code
c. Headline tags, Paragraph tag
d. Singular and Paired tags
e. Basic structure of an HTML page
f. Attributes
g. Images
h. Hyperlinks
i. Ordered and Unordered lists
j. Tables

- Introduction to HTML5 & CSS3 (Module)